# Ship Registration

All ships should be registered with a [Registration Authority (RA)](./Governments.md). A player can only register with an RA they are [Friendly](./Governments.md) with. Once registered, a ship will be permanently issued a Call Sign. This call sign will also be broadcast by the ship's beacon transmitter.

## Call Sign (RCMI)

Ship call signs are generated by the game automatically and cannot be modified. Every ship any player or NPC has will receive a call-sign when registered. This call sign is broadcast at all times and allows all player in a given [Astral System](./Astral System.md) to see who is around. If the ship is Unregistered, their callsign will be presented as such

### What the Numbers Mean

A Call Sign will contain specific components for easy identification of the ship's [RA](./Governements.md) and classification, as well as a unique identifier. If the first 3-bytes are Zero, then the ship is unregistered.

```
Call Sign (RCMI): RRR-CM-III

RRR: (3-Bytes) Registration Authority
  C: (1-Byte)  Ship Class
  M: (1-Byte)  Ship Model
III: (3-Bytes) Unique and Random Hexadecimal Identifier

Packs into Standard 64-bit/8-Byte Unsigned Long Integer 0x0123456789ABCDEF
```

## Beacon Transmitter

The beacon transmitter is always broadcasting the ship's identification which any player can see on their [System Map](./System Map.md). This shows the ship's current location in the system to those who are also in the same [Astral System](./Astral System.md).

### Toggling Beacon Broadcast

A player can choose to switch off their call sign broadcast. This can be useful for travelling in dangerous areas, but also dangerous if caught by a government patrol ship in a secure zone. Disabling your Call Sign broadcast will prevent your ship from appearing on the System Map, unless you are within range of someone's [Long Range sensors](./Sensors.md). At which point your ship will appear as an Unidentified Vessel.

### Enabled in Friendly Zone

While enabled in a friendly zone, your ship will appear on all System Maps and patrol ships ignore your presence.

### Disabled in Friendly Zone

If caught, their reputation with the system's [governing body](./Governments.md) will be reduced and they may receive a fine.

### Enabled in Hostile Zone

Flying through hostile zone with a call sign broadcast will cause nearby enemy ships to engage you depending on your [Threat Level](./Threat Levels.md). If your threat radius reaches them, they will engage in combat.

### Disabled in Hostile Zone

Flying through a hostile zone with your call sign off will help prevent detection, and will engage any ship not broadcasting when they appear on their Long Range sensors.

### Open Space

Travelling in Open Space is always a danger where anyone can be attacked by anyone else. There are also various celestial creatures that can be found in these areas.
